in this video let us learn how to implement Insert
front and insert rear operation
First let us learn the working principle of the insert
front operation as we're going to use it doubly linked
list
Let us create the structure of the node in a
Doubly linked
List
Each node will have three parts
The data part and the next and previous pointers
This is the structure for the doubly linked list to
implement
deque
Let us create two struck node pointers Front and rear
initially marked them as null
Now let's insert Element 10 at front first create a new
node and assign value 10 to it
If the front pointer is null it means the deque is empty
In this case we need to set both front and
rear points to the first node so make both front
and rear points to node 10
Now let us insert one more element 20 at the front
so create a new node and assign value
20 to it
Here we already have Node
10 and both front and rear is pointing to it
We need to insert 20 at the front
So what We can do is first
Make the new node Twenty's next as the front node
and then make the front of previous pointer to new
node
20 finally make the new node as front
That's it now Node
20 has become the front node So the logic of
insert front function is very simple
Create a new node With the given value
We can use the get node function for this
If the front pointer is null make both front and rear
point to the new node
Otherwise insert given node at the front
By using the following steps make new node of next
as front and then make the front of previous as
new node and finally make the new node as front
That's it we have implemented the insert front function
Now let us quickly implement the get node function as
well
First the get node function will allocate memory for the
new node
Next it will assign the given value in the data
part and then it will initialise both the next and
previous pointer as null
And finally it will return the new node
That's it
In this video we have learned how to implement the
insert front function
In the next video we will learn how to implement insert rear function.